# V0.9

The original working prototype for CP800

The function of the board is broken down into the following sections:

1)  The power transfer to each of the components below

2)  The pumps

3)  The motor

4)  The fluid sensors feedback

5)  The solenoid valves for flow control

6)  The user interface

7)  The heating element

## Power circuit

![](images/a5af23a017931d6dd6c97e1efb1e29145736b515.png)

Both 12V and 5V comes from the external switch converter and are reverse
polarity protected with low on resistance p-channel MOSFET and Zener
diode.

The Arduino is powered via the 5V pin bypassing the LDO that required a
higher voltage to power. And all 12V and 5V components will be supplied
by these two voltage sources.

![](images/2db910335ebdd3a4253d7a811334af805da3ee41.png)

There are four power connectors, one is the input from the 12V PSU, one
is the 12V output after the reverse polarity protection, one is 5V
voltage input from the buck converter, and the last one is an extra
header for a 5V reference.

## Pumps control

![](images/d8ddaef542e4a0e9c2f4ac4a2a79790196ac28cb.png)

There are three output ports for pumps. They are 2pin output.

Each pump is driven by a power MOSFET to switch them on and off with a
low side BJT transistor as the gate driver.

A high output in the microcontroller will allow gate to discharge thru
the BJT quickly, and achieve a faster turn off of the pumps. Meanwhile,
a low output on the microcontroller will turn the BJT off, and the
MOSFET gate is charged thru the low resistance pull up resistor, to
achieve a regulated turn on time.

The pull up resistor in the microcontroller signal pin is implemented in
the case where these pins are not programmed. The pull up resistors will
ensure the pump is off when these pins are not programmed.

Fuses are installed to prevent over current, and a flyback Schottky
diode is used to limit voltage surge by the induction load from the
pumps.

## Motor Control

![](images/72950af9ba3f602d26cdd749b54be6463c7e8027.png)

The motor control is very similar to the pump control as they are both
inductions loading presumably.

The motor we are using has 5 pins control: PWR, DIR, PWN, FB, GND. We
don't use the current feedback wire, so it is left out of the port
output intentionally.

The motor is then connected to the 4 pins JST XH output on the board.

In order to turn on the motor, we need the PWE pin to be 12V, and the
GND pin to be 0V. There is a fuse of the appropriate current to limit
over current, and there is a flyback Schottky diode to limit voltage
surge.

Both DIR and GND pins are controlled by power MOSFETs to switch between
12V and 0V. A pulled up resistor of 12V is in place for the DIR pin, so
there is a default DIR of rotation for the motor, if the pin is left
hanging.

The low side BJT allows a quick discharge of gate, and the low
resistance pull up allows a fixed time fast charging up to the gate.

The pulled up in the microcontroller pins are to make sure the DIR and
0V pin are forced to 12V and keep the motor off, if these pins are not
programmed by the microcontroller.

## Solenoid valves control

![](images/2ce82c4fa48dbca0a85abdf8af10c18cd95f5e94.png)Both add and remove valves are controlled in the same
way. Since solenoid is a highly inductive load, we have to apply a
voltage of 12V across each pair of contact on the solenoid block.
Similar to motor and pumps, a fuse to protect from over current and
flyback Schottky diode for voltage surge.

Each solenoid is switched on and off by a MOSFET with a low side BJT
driver for fast drain in gate and a pulled-up resistor in case of
unprogrammed microcontroller pins to the demultiplexer, CD4051.

## User interface

![](images/d49cd66c63a79392b44038c21ba4347f020d3d34.png)

There are two connectors between the motherboard and the Dpad board.
These control the user interface. The 10ways IDC connector is the
connection with each button and LED on the Dpad. The 10ways JST XH
header is the signal going to the LCD screen.

The screen is turned on and off by MOSFET, the program is currently
locked to stay on. Future programming is required to control the
backlight.

![](images/e9b49f3e5be68589fc388fdd86d563ab1ce66e64.png)

The signal from the Dpad will be processed by a DAC with a R-2R
structure, to convert the 6 inputs from the Dpad to a binary coded 8bit
voltage. Note that only UIcontrol analog signal is used, the second
output is left connected. Now.

## Heating element

![](images/b27256ddae968f32af6be2912b359ea0fbbc5e4a.png)

The heating element chosen is one that is powered by AC 240V input, at
the connector, HE1.

KBP206G is the rectifier to convert AD into DC voltage.

The 4N35SM photocoupler will convert the rectified wave and generate an
on and off 5V signal to the microcontroller to locate the zero-crossing
point of the input wave. This will allow the microcontroller to align
the output from this zero-crossing moment if necessary.

MOC3020 is the photocoupler, between DC to AC using a triac. This
component allows the microcontroller to sink the current at the cathode
(the negative, pin 2) of the MOC3020 diode. Allowing the microcontroller
to control the pulse powering the heating element by driving the BT1365
triac.

R6, R9 and C2, are there to protect the MOC3020 from load, and R10 and
C3 form the snubber to protect the triac.

![](images/1a5972b24ee6be96f8deea1c6574e29449a1b8ff.png)

Additional cutout on PCB to increase the effective isolation between the
240V on each contact of the rectifier.

![](images/e3d0a6ba782a003dc8ef565e5ee8a7135d475124.png)

The AC circuit is located at a different part of the PCB, and the pinout
for controlling the heating element is done by a 4ways connector as
shown above. A jumper cable will be required to connect this connector,
MUC_HEAT_OUT1, with the one input 4ways connector, MCU_heating_IN1,
connection the MOC3020 and 4N35 IC.

## Sensors

![](images/b95cabdec566c15e84314ab4b1310db18db4a5b6.png)

There are three main sensors: temperature, tank high level, and flow out
sensor

Temperature sensor is currently unuse, it is supposed to serve as the
feedback to control the heating element. It is using a one-wire bus to
transmit its digital data. The sensor used here is DS18B20.

The tank high level sensor is a 4 pins socket connecting to a
capacitance sensor mounted to the tank and will trigger a on signal when
the water level is raised.

The flow out sensor is a 4 pins socket connecting to two capacitance
sensors clipped to the outlet tubbing from the tank to the solenoid
valve, and will trigger a signal when they sense the tube has fluid
inside.

## Buzzer

![](images/2c57ee5b3f6431347a86565101374c0a7933ff8a.png)

A buzzer is integrated to the board, this allows the program to give out
audio clues to the user/operator when things happen. See software
documentation to see the list of audio clues.

## Communication Ports

![](images/94ef439de058dcca5a704ba09dd5e3e3687ee2a2.png)

There are two types of communication port accessible from the boards via
three ports:

There are two I2C ports, 4 ways, with one of the port has an extra set
of pulled up resistor for a new additional device

There is a 16way IDC SPI communication port. This is currently used for
the SD card module. The hardware is suitable for any SPI device. The
parallel pin socket allow another device to be piggy-back to the same
port.

## Microcontroller pinout

![](images/13f5299cd7b8ad20d8dafd82c7dd70d71715c2b7.png)

A pinout diagram of the microcontroller to all the other components on
the board. Some basic components such as transistor and resistor are
added depending on the signal the pin is interfacing with. This would
change depending on the programs being uploaded to the microcontroller.

![](images/ff2a45a162c058091e93d60abf053a5c64acbc8d.png)

All the extra pins are tentatively grouped to an IDC header for future
development and expansion.

